Vim Php
=======

Vim settings for php developers.

Php documentor (PDV) and some generic php settings.

This vim plugin is based on the work of Tobias Schlitt with pdv and vip.

# Installation

I recommend using [Vim Pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen)

Therefore:

    cd .vim/bundles
    git clone git://github.com/AD7six/vim-php.git

Alternatively - simply put the file independence.vim in your plugin folder directly

# PDV - phpDocumentor for VIM

PDV provides auto documentation functionality for PHP code in VIM. You can
easily create documentation templates for a lot of PHP code constructs easily,
which are pre-filled with sensible values. The documentation generated by PDV is
parseable by phpDocumentor_, the standard tool for PHP inline documentation.

The following code constructs are documentable using PDV:

- classes
- methods
- attributes
- functions
- constants

You can either use PDV on a single code construct, or on a range of code
constructs. PDV will generate the appropriate doc tags for all contained
elements. It will fill in the standard values you provide and try to guess as
much data from your code as possible (like the data type of attributes and
function/method parameters).

.. _phpDocumentor: http://phpdoc.org

# Configuring PDV

PDV fills in tags as it "thinks" is appropriate. Because development
environments are highly different, the values that are appropriate for me my be
completely inappropriate for you. Therefore, you can configure almost all of
them to suite your needs. The configuration values can be found at the very top
of php-doc.vim in the "Globals" section.

Please do yourself a favor and do not edit anything below this section, as long
as you are not absolutely sure, what you are doing!

The configuration is done through global VIM script variables. All variables
utilized by PDV start with g: (for global scope) and are prefixed by pdv_cfg_*
for namespacing reasons.

The first section configures the comment chars to use. You usually should not
have to edit those, because they are already appropriate for the phpDocumentor
standard. Nevertheless, you could configure the following settings here:


g:pdv_cfg_CommentHead
    The first line of a comment. The default value here is ``"/**"`` , which
    introduces a new phpDocumentor conform documentation block.
g:pdv_cfg_Comment1
    In phpDocumentor each comment line starts with a star. Actually, with a
    space and a char. This variable defines the prefix for the first actual
    comment line. The default value " * " should be appropriate here.
g:pdv_cfg_Commentn
    Because in some rare cases, you possible want to change the prefix of the
    first comment line independent of the rest of the comment lines. This can be
    done, using this variable. The default value again is " * ", as in the
    phpDocumentor standard.
g:pdv_cfg_CommentTail
    This variable defines the ending line of a phpDocumentor block. The default value
    is ``" */"``.
g:pdv_cfg_CommentSingle
    While PDV currently does not generate single line comments (mainly, because
    they are not part of the phpDocumentor standard), this variable could be
    used to configure their appearance. Default is "//".

Much more important than the settings above is the next section of options,
which takes care for default values:

g:pdv_cfg_Type
    This setting defines the default type of attributes and parameters. PDV
    tries to determine the type first, using several mechanisms, like type
    hints and default values. If it cannot guess the type, it uses this value,
    which is "mixed", per default.
g:pdv_cfg_Package
    The class level doc block should contain the @package tag, according to
    phpDocumentor standard. PDV will use the value of this configuration variable
    here. You just adjust this in each package, to suite your needs. NOTE:
    There can not be any sensible default value!
g:pdv_cfg_Version
    Every class level doc block should have a version number tag. The value for
    this variable is usually a placeholder again, which will be replaced by a
    3rd party program (like CVS or SVN) or a custom script. The default value
    here is "//autogen//", which can be used with a custom script.
g:pdv_cfg_Author
    The @author tag is present in every doc block, usually. It defines the name
    (and possibly mail address) of the programmer who has written the code. You
    should enter your name here. Per default, this setting is empty, which is
    usually not a sensible default.
g:pdv_cfg_Copyright
    The @copyright tag is also available at class level only. There is no
    sensible default value for this tag.
g:pdv_cfg_License
    As the @copyright tag, the @license tag is present at class level. It
    contains license information for your code. You need to customize this,
    since there is no sensible default value for this tag.
g:pdv_cfg_ReturnVal
    PHP does not provide much information to determine the return type of a
    method/function. Actually, PDV currently does not support any kind.
    Therefore you need to define a value for the @return tag, which seems
    appropriate for you. The default value here is "void".
g:pdv_cfg_Uses
    The @uses tag is commonly used to explicitly document inheritance of
    classes and interface implementation. If you want to get the @uses tag
    generated for class level doc block, change the value of this variable to
    1. The default value is 0.
g:pdv_cfg_paste
    If you use the file type plugin provided here, you have features like
    automatic-close-char-mapping (e.g. for braces) and auto indentation
    activated. In this case, PDV needs to switch on paste mode in VIM before
    documenting a code block, because else the doc blocks will be broken. This
    setting usually does not hurt, because PDV stores the original setting and
    switches back to it after documenting. You can nevertheless switch it off
    by setting this value to 0.  The default value is 1.
g:pdv_cfg_php4always
    In contrast to PHP 5, in PHP 4 no scope modifiers existed. Therefore it was
    necessary to document the program scope of attributes and methods
    appropriate. Switching this setting to 1 will make PDV document the
    visibility scope of a PHP construct even if you have PHP 5 code (using the
    @access tag). For PHP 4 code it will in general document the scope,
    independent from the value of this setting. For guessing the `PEAR coding
    standard`_ is taken, which defines a private/protected construct to start
    its name with a _. The default value here is 0, since phpDocumentor
    determines scope values in PHP 5 automatically and there is no need to
    explicitly document it.
g:pdv_cfg_php4guessval
    If you have to document PHP 4 code, you can define the value which is
    chosen for guessing the scope using this variable. PEAR defines that
    elements prefixed by an _ are protected or private. You should change this
    setting to the value you use most. The default is "protected".

The last section defines the regular expressions used by PDV to recognize
certain code constructs. You should never change this settings, unless you
really know what you are doing or want your PDV installation to get broken
easily. Therefore, this section is only documented in the code and not here.

.. _`PEAR coding standard`: http://pear.php.net/manual/en/standards.php
